what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
going to be talking about the
situational judgment section on the UK
Kant also your boy got your haircut I
finally got rid of the huge helmet
wolf-like hair that I had on my head
before you guys already know how this
videos gonna work I'm gonna go through
some general tips about situational
judgment that I think are really useful
and then I'm gonna put myself in the
corner of the screen and solve questions
on camera live so that you guys can see
my thought process and see the kind of
things that I'm thinking about when
going through these questions recently a
lot of you guys have been asking for a
Q&A I'm sort of so you can get a better
insight to Who I am
where I come from my background things
like that so if you have any questions
at all academically related personal
related medical school related whatever
it is feel free to leave a comment on
this video or any of the videos in the
future and I'm gonna be doing a Q&A soon
also follow me on my Instagram page you
guys can ask me questions there
not only for the Q & A but about
anything that you like so with that out
of the way let's get right into the
video
so the situational judgment section is
supposed to test your integrity your
honesty your ability to work in teams
things of that nature sort of the
non-academic aspects that are required
to be a doctor and to practice medicine
a lot of the situational judgment
section is gonna revolve around medical
ethics or moral dilemmas so you want to
make sure that you have those things
down if you don't know the four pillars
of medical ethics are autonomy
beneficence non malevolence and justice
let's have a quick rundown of what those
things mean autonomy means that the
patient is completely within their right
to decide what they want to do with
their body what they want to do with
their course of treatment and to make
decisions on their own if competent
beneficence means that you want to do
good and you have the intentions to do
good non malevolence is that you have
the intention to not do harm you don't
want to do something that could cause
harm and justice is that you provide a
quality and treatment for all regardless
of their ethnicity background color
whatever it is it's equal treatment for
all people now specifically for
situational judgments something that is
extremely extremely useful it's a
document by the GMC which is the General
Medical Council if you don't know it's a
document by them called tomorrow's
doctors and this document kind of
outlines what it expects of doctors
future how it expects them to act what
it expects them to do and having a good
read of that is gonna be something that
can really help in solving situational
judgment questions I'm gonna put a link
to that document in the description down
below so definitely click on that in the
very least have a skim read through it
you definitely want to be aware of the
sort of things that they talked about in
that document it covers different topics
from respecting the rights of your
patient not abusing your power as a
doctor and a whole list of other things
that are very very common and come up in
situational judgment sections now keep
in mind that the situational judgment
section doesn't require any medical
knowledge the way that these questions
are marked is that you get partial
points if you're close to the correct
answer and then full points if you are
on the correct answer so first and
foremost when answering situational
judgment questions you want to decide
which part of the extreme spectrum
you're on or you under this is a very
important consideration or this is not
important at all because if you decide
that then at least you can get partial
marks and then you can try and figure
out how extreme you want to be is this
very very important or just important
how they decide what the right answer is
for a situational judgment question is
that they pose this question to a panel
of doctors and the doctors all give
their opinion and whatever the most
popular opinion is is what is considered
right so it's not always gonna be a
hundred percent there you can't really
say that answer a is definitively a
million percent correct it's a what a
majority of doctors said that they would
do if they were in that situation one
questioned on a panel so yeah in my
opinion the best way to study for
situational judgment is to do lots and
lots of questions you're gonna see over
and over again the same sort of themes
the same sorts of questions come up so
once you start to recognize those
patterns over time you can figure out
what the answer is really easily
alright guys before we get into the
questions I want to tell you a little
bit about medified mattifies a UK
account resource question bank that I've
been using for the last little while to
prepare myself for the decision-making
and situational judgment videos on the
homepage you can see here what your
performance is against other students
taking medified so you know if you're
performing at an average level below
average or above average if you're
someone who relies on doing lots and
lots of practice like myself and like I
always tell you guys in every one of my
UK cat videos I honestly think this is
really useful you can see for every
section that one
of questions to do and when you're done
practicing you can check their
performance how are you doing in each of
the sections so there you can see your
weaknesses you can see where you need to
improve where you should focus more of
your time and you can also track your
history too to see if you're keeping up
with a schedule that you set for
yourself if you're slacking and you
probably need to do more studying after
you've done a bunch of practice you can
go take the mock exams so they actually
have four mini mock exams for each
section and then seven full mock exams
this is honestly more marks than you'll
ever need to do in my opinion the monks
are really useful because they'll help
you practice your timing you'll have a
set amount of questions to do in a set
amount of time and that'll make you
really focus and harness down on your
ability to do questions under pressure
so yeah guys if meta Phi's something
that you might be interested in if you
need that extra practice to excel you in
the UK can't feel free to check out
their website I'll leave a link in the
description okay now having said all of
that for the general tips let's jump
straight into the questions okay guys so
I've got my computer down here I'm gonna
be reading the question and saying out
loud or focusing on what I think are the
most important words are the most
important pieces of information and then
from there I'm gonna go on to tackling
the questions question one a medical
student Satnam is working on a visiting
busy hospital ward an elderly patient
mr. Adams has been discharged that
morning and is getting ready to go home
mr. Adams has difficulty walking as mr.
Adams is leaving the hospital seinem
observes him taking a pair of crutches
I've been left unattended okay sanim
knows that a doctor must provide
authorization in order for questions to
be removed from the hospital he also
knows the authorization has not been
provided in this case so how important
to take into account are the following
considerations for Satnam so the mr.
Adams should not leave the hospital with
crutches that have not been properly
authorized okay so directly from the
passage we know that you require proper
authorization in order to take the
crutches so this question is saying how
important is it that we get proper
authorization well I would definitely
argue if first we're gonna decide which
half of the scale this is on this is
definitely on the important side of the
scale the passage directly says crutches
need to be authorized this is saying how
important is it that crutches are
authorized so I would go for very
important in this case that no one else
appears to have observed mr. Adams
taking the crutches without them being
authorized
this is not important at all okay so
when a bad act happens when something
negative happens that could jeopardize
jeopardize the public's opinion of
medicine or could jeopardize a patient's
health whether or not someone saw that
act occurring is totally unimportant and
this comes up so many times over and
over again note this down whether
someone sees about act happening has no
relevance to the fact that a bad act has
occurred because it's still gonna have
the same consequences it could still
affect patient health patient safety
which is always number one so this is
always a non important I'll make sure
you write that down
next question okay new paragraph before
we start the new paragraph I recently
made a video where I was giving away my
UK count notes and I told you guys to
send me an email there and I would send
it to you I've now put a link in the
descriptions that you can download them
directly I think I have some really
really good notes in there for the
situational judgment section so I would
highly recommend checking it out I'll
put a link to that download link in the
description here as well and I'll link
you to the video question number two dr.
Wright works in the hospital how
important is it that she is confident
about the competence of the surgeon I
think that that's something that's very
important obviously competency of the
surgeon is going to be something that's
extremely important in designing if the
surgeon should do the surgery and it's
going to help the patient decide if they
want that specific surgeon to do the
surgery on them so I would definitely
say that this is on the important half
of the scale whether that's very
important or important if we know that
the surgeon is competent this is
something that's objective about them if
they've had successes in the past so I'm
gonna go with very important how
important is it that she has no evidence
that the surgeon has been insensitive to
women this is very important and this is
also a topic that comes up over and over
again
I remember now from a year and a half
ago when I took this exam this this
theme comes up very very often if you
don't have evidence of rumors if you
don't have evidence of something bad
having happened if allegations are being
made it's very important to not believe
those allegations straight away if
someone is slandering someone or someone
has said something crazy has happened or
some person did something really bad
it's really important not to take that
as truth image
you have to assess all the evidence you
get you need to check for yourself you
need to know for yourself the fact that
she has no evidence that the surgeon has
been insensitive is definitely important
that telling Nathalie about the rumors
may affect Natalie's confidence in the
surgeon this is also very important if
we confirm - not to be like oh yeah the
rumors are true or maybe they're true
and that's gonna affect how Natalie
thinks of the surgeon that's gonna
affect how Natalie speaks about that
surgeon and that could go on to
influence his reputation
so definitely telling Natalie about the
rumors I would say is not a good idea
and it is of great importance in this
situation okay so the third question was
this boy comport and is it if she
doesn't know inform miss choker again
about the risks associated with her
pregnancy mr. Oprah may decide to become
pregnant for a fifth time become unwell
this is clearly very important we know
that she's already once not taken into
account the information that the doctor
gave her and she's gone against the
recommendation of not getting pregnant
because it puts her an increased risk
and she is now at an increased risk so
we want to make sure that the patient
actually understood what the doctor told
them the first time if they realized the
amount of harm that they could be
causing themselves and we want to make
sure that they don't get pregnant again
as I could further increase harm to the
pic the patient always remember that
first and foremost in these questions
the number one thing is maintaining
patient safety minimizing patient harm
that's like at the very top of the
pyramid of important things that you
wanted doing these questions and what
you want to prioritize patient health
and safety is absolutely number one
patients or the public's view in
medicine is also something quite up
there that's important but number one is
patient health and safety how important
is it that the information about the
risks to miss Chopra's health is
provided to her in a respectful and
caring way again very important if
you're ever giving information to a
patient about the risks of their health
you always want to do this in a
respectful and caring way this question
should be quite obvious and hopefully is
quite obvious you never want to give
someone information in a disrespectful
way the Miss Chopra is provided with
sufficient information for her to be
able to make an informed decision about
whether to become
again if we go back to what I said at
the beginning of this video one of the
four pillars of medicine is autonomy the
patient should always have the ability
to make their own informed decision and
this question is directly saying that we
want to give her enough information for
her to make her own informed decision
this is 100 percent very important and
definitely needs to happen miss
Childress entitlement to be able to make
her own decisions about her health and
lifestyle this is basically a question
about the same thing autonomy miss
Chopra definitely needs to have autonomy
and this question is saying that we will
give it to her so this is very important
okay next question
medical students Lucy and Karl these are
two friends or maybe they're not friends
but they're two students in a classroom
and that's important to take into
account always know if it's two students
if it's a doctor and a student if it's a
lecturer and a doctor if it's a patient
and a doctor you always need to remember
the rules of who we're talking about
here because that comes in two
importance in the questions so how
important is it a hospital policy should
be adhered to
hopefully this is extremely simple and
easy for you to answer obviously very
important hospital policy is there for a
reason rules and regulations are in
place for a reason and they should
always be adhered to that she does not
know where the call has been given
permission to record the tutorial again
I would say this is very important let's
analyze why if Karl does know that he
has not been given permission to record
and he is recording then he is knowingly
and willingly doing something incorrect
and he should definitely be told and
that's something that needs to change if
karl has no idea that he shouldn't be
recording this session and he hasn't
been given permission and he's recording
the session again he should be told but
that makes his intention very different
and that is extremely important so
whether Colin knows that he is breaking
the policies or not is gonna be very
important and the patient's right to
confidentiality do I really need to
explain this hopefully not
patient confidentiality is of extreme
extreme importance always preserve
patient confidentiality unless
absolutely necessary
and there's a series of of times when
breaking patient confidentiality is okay
but certainly this is not one of the
fact that patient identifiable
information
mentioned during the tutorial again
obviously very important if patient
identifiable information was not
mentioned during the tutorial then this
wouldn't be an issue because it says in
the passage that you're allowed to
discuss tutorials as long as the electro
grants permission and patients are not
discussed so if there was no patient
name then this doesn't even matter the
fact that a patient name is mentioned or
patient identifiable material is
mentioned is definitely important okay a
new question lee and chris are working
as junior golfers together really
interesting scenario so the crux of this
question is that it's affecting patient
health and safety it says in the passage
that when dealing with patients he's
made some mistakes this is like the key
important thing you need to take away
from this passage okay his personal life
and personal issues affecting patients
how important is it that Chris's
behavior at work could increase the
workload for other stuff I would say
this is important on the direction of
important or not or not important how
important this is I'm not really sure so
look
Chris's behavior could increase the
workload of other stuff okay so if Chris
is slacking or if Chris is making
mistakes or if Chris is not paying
attention to what he's doing that's that
isn't that is an important thing and
that's going to have important
consequences on other people working
around him that are gonna have to make
up for that so I would definitely go
with at least important whether it's
very important or not I don't think this
is the most important part of this
question it is important but the the
crux of this question the most important
part is that patient safety is being
jeopardized so I'm just gonna go with
important not with very important the
fact that Chris has made some mistakes
when dealing with patients is of utmost
importance it's the most important part
of this whole question is that his
personal life is now affecting patients
affecting health and safety of patients
so very important that Chris has been
heir to both patients again very
important the patient's perspective of
the doctors around them and the
patient's perspective of the field of
medicine as a whole is something that
needs to be preserved as best as
possible and if you are talking to
patients in a way that does not reflect
the utmost best values that doctors are
supposed to hold and preserve and that
is definitely very important that Chris
has been irritable with members of staff
again this is this is also very
important you don't want to be irritable
with
with anyone if you have personally
problems if you're going through
something that's totally okay and
personal problems and emotions happen
all the time being irritable with other
members of staff is something that's not
professional at all and if a patient
were to see two members of staff
bickering with each other or being
disrespectful to each other that's
definitely not going to help preserve
the image of the field of Medicine one
second let's move on to the second type
of question that comes up in situational
judgments section which is about the
appropriateness of specific actions
Simon is a medical student how
appropriate each of the following
responses by Simon in this situation
assume that the following responses
would be said politely so okay that's
also something important to consider how
the responses are said because you could
misinterpret the tone just from reading
so keep in mind that this is being said
politely
dear Cecilia you are part of the
committee I would never deliberately
exclude you in any way that is super
important to say first things first you
want to make it clear to Cecilia that
this was something that was
unintentional I didn't do this on
purpose to you let's try and find out
what happened so very important or sorry
very appropriate second thing we should
look into what arrangements can be made
from when people are not able to make
the meetings on time okay that sounds
pretty pretty good like people are gonna
be unable to make meetings all the time
for whatever different reasons some
family emergency came up my brother
could help them if I need to help I'm
feeling sick I was having a good day
whatever people are gonna be unable to
make meetings all the time so being able
to set some sort of infrastructure that
gets around that problem for example
skyping in or being sent the meeting
notes or giving your input through text
is something that should definitely be
done so yeah I would say this is very
appropriate thing to say I'm sorry can I
ask why you feel that I deliberately
excluded you from the meeting the first
thing I'll take away from this statement
is that this isn't inappropriate this
isn't a bad thing to say this isn't
going to cause any problem so the bottom
C and V are going to be canceled and
then I'll have to decide if this is air
B this definitely isn't wrong of Simon
to say but it might also might not be
the best thing like this could cause her
to just you know get mad I'm gonna go
with appropriate but not ideal
there's definitely better things you can
say in this situation like some of the
things that we saw previously I'm sorry
I thought you would have known that the
are locked at 6:15 that's a super
appropriate thing say this is like this
is a pure fact you know like the doors
closed at 6:15 this is something that I
guess you should have known but he's not
saying it in that way he's saying I
thought you knew when I thought you
should I thought you would have known
that the doors are locked at this time
so I think that's totally appropriate
and yeah it's a good piece of
information to say because if she didn't
know that now she does and there's no
reason for this whole argument that's
something that she should have been
aware of next question okay next
question so complete the assigned
personal tasks for Margaret without
mentioning that do not seem to be
related to his development I think in
this case who is it Sen Sen definitely
wants to let Margaret know that this is
not what he's supposed to be doing sine
is here to learn and to develop and to
experience clinical things and so that's
what he wants to do so if he just
completes these tasks without mentioning
anything then maybe Margaret will think
that he's okay with doing that and he
won't be able to get the full learning
experience that he wants so if he just
does these tasks without mentioning
that's I think that's an inappropriate
thing to do but I wouldn't say that's
like very very inappropriate this isn't
gonna have negative impacts on on their
relationship or on patient health and
safety so I would say this is
inappropriate but not awful suggest to
Margaret examples of more clinical tasks
that he could get involved with during
the attachment I think this is
definitely an appropriate thing to do
send once to improve his clinical
learning his clinical development and
that's what he's here to do that's what
he's here to learn seek advice from the
academic tutor responsible for the
learning attachment I think that's
definitely very appropriate and I'll
tell you guys why this is another one of
those things that comes up over and over
and over again seeking advice almost
always when seeking advice this is a
very appropriate thing to do asking
someone for help asking someone for
their input someone who's older someone
who's more mature someone who is
supposed to be overlooking what you're
doing is always going to be appropriate
if you're unsure you should be asking
for help you should be seeking advice so
I definitely definitely think this is a
very appropriate thing to do and if I
remember correctly this is also included
in my notes if you haven't downloaded
them already
links in the description okay new
question
tell the patient to inform the senior
doctor how his behavior makes patients
feel the next time this occurs who are
we who's Cameron karma is a medical
student so I feel like maybe it's more
important that the medical staff like
medical students or other doctors tell
the doctor that his behavior may not be
appropriate I don't think it's okay it's
not a bad thing if the patient's do this
themselves in fact if a patient does
this that it should be a real wake-up
call for the doctor to reevaluate their
actions and how they're behaving yeah I
think I think this is appropriate so if
you're a medical student you can tell
the patient like hey this might be
something you might want to bring up
with your doctor so that they're aware
this look can cause at the beginning of
a conversation where hopefully the
doctor can change this kind of behavior
seek advice from another senior member
of staff about the senior cultures
behavior what did I just say about
seeking advice so you can get biases of
almost always gonna be a very
appropriate thing to do discuss the
situation with peers to find out what
they would do in that situation I think
this is appropriate but there's a
balance and this is the reason I'm not
gonna put very appropriate so again
discussing with someone seeking advice
from someone talking to someone is
almost always gonna be a good thing
however in this situation you don't sort
of want to spread this bad information
about the doctor right even though it's
with peers with other medical students
or maybe this is not other medical
students this could be friends outside
of medical school I think the point is
the same if you want to ask for advice
you can maybe ask one or two friends and
private ask for their opinion see if
they can give you a different
perspective but this is definitely
something you don't want to be like
spreading around so the act here of
asking for advice or talking to someone
else about what they would do I don't
think it's bad but you also don't want
to like go out and spread that
information as fact or just let everyone
know so I would say appropriate but not
ideal but this is kind of tricky but I
think be is a pretty pretty good
response okay next question
medical student gamma gamma and gamma
rays Jemma okay so something super super
bad has occurred patient allergies some
of the most important things you need to
note down and be aware of it's one of
the first things on a patient's medical
chart there's like a huge section to say
like allergies and if not you right no
no no first reactions I believe in kPa
or something like that but anyway this
is a very very important piece of
information and the fact that the doctor
right wrote know when she said yes is of
huge importance so before I read the
question this is definitely something
that the doctor needs to know and he
needs to know soon okay whether this is
corrected directly in front of the
patient or after the patient is up for
debate and I would probably say that
after is maybe more appropriate let's
see what the questions are but before we
start the question this definitely has
to be changed inform dr. mitchell once
the patient has left the room that he
appears to have made an error with the
computer record one hundred one hundred
percent like this is the most
appropriate thing to do you maybe don't
want to do it while the patient is
sitting there because you don't
undermine the confidence that the
patient has in the doctor but you have
to let the doctor know and once the
patient has left the room is a great
time to do this so very appropriate
change the computer record after dr.
Mitchell and the patient have left the
room to avoid dr. Mitchell being
embarrassed okay I think this is very
inappropriate I'm gonna explain why
although it says to a point dr. Mitchell
being embarrassed which like you might
think is a good thing you don't want to
embarrass the doctor in front of the
patient which is kind of true but this
is super super Rome eh you're changing
information when you're not authorized
but anyway you're doing it without
telling the doctor which has two
problems a the doctors unaware that this
change has been made B it's being made
without his permission and this is like
definitely a huge nono you definitely
need to inform the doctor in a
respectful way in a nice kind way but
they need to know and they need to make
the change themselves ask the patient to
repeat this his answer to the question
that's kind of cheeky it's like it's
like saving the doctor in the situation
without embarrassing him it's kind of
like when your best friend says
something stupid when you're out and
they're talking to someone who they're
interested in and you kind of try and
button to fix their response or to ask
another question to change the topic I
think this is a pretty similar analogy
so yeah I'd say this is appropriate like
you can say oh sorry I didn't hear that
could you repeat it please the patient
will repeat their answer the doctor will
hopefully notice this time and change
his input so yeah I think this is pretty
appropriate but definitely talking to
the doctor after is going to be the
better thing to do
a dental student real well you're the
team captain or the team leader of the
group and another member has come to you
with complaints about a third member
which is totally possible this happens
all the time in group projects so let's
see what's going on how appropriate is
it to take no action unless further
complaints are received from other
members of the group I would say that
this is definitely inappropriate a
complaint has been brought up something
has been said there is a disagreement
and it should definitely be addressed to
dismiss this complaint on ignore until
something else happens means that more
bad things can keep happening in the
mean time so this is definitely
inappropriate you definitely want to
take action on this is this a very
inappropriate thing to do I think the
answer very inappropriate is reserved
for when you're causing negative harm or
you're causing like very big
consequences to happen which I don't
think this action would so I'm gonna say
inappropriate but not awful
next question suggest to Jerome that he
raises his concerns with Elisabeth
directly I definitely think this is a
good idea and I think this is like I
think this should be the first course of
action to be taken the the team captain
is there to sort of oversee these things
and to make sure that everything is
going okay but I think first things
first a direct conversation between the
two parties involved might be the best
way to go about this next question speak
to Elizabeth directly to raise concerns
about the time and effort she's
dedicating to the group project
definitely definitely appropriate first
of all you're directly speaking to
Elizabeth you're not going through other
people which is definitely good and your
director isn't concerns about the things
that the other team member was concerned
about but you're working towards solving
the problem you're making actions you're
taking initiative to solve this problem
so I think it's a very appropriate thing
to do I think I'm gonna stop there I've
currently been recording for about 40
minutes
to cut this down and to make it down
into an appropriate length for you guys
to see I hope you enjoyed that video I
hope you were able to make use of my
thought process and logic as I went
through these questions don't forget to
ask me lots of questions for the Q&A
leave them in a comment down below you
can leave them on my Instagram page as
well I hope you enjoyed it this is the
fourth in the series can't believe I've
made four of these now and yeah guys
take care happy revision I know a lot of
your exams are coming up really soon
so good luck good luck good luck
practice hard and I hope you guys do
well I'll see you guys in the next video
peace